---
title: "Discernment of the Will of God T.O. III"
date: 2020-09-15T8:43:00-05:00
draft: true
---
## Review
- Imago Dei (Genesis)
- The Word (John & Psalm 1)
- The New Man & as Emulating Christ (Ephesians)
- Specific Attitudes to Guide Daily Acts (Titus)
- The Lord IS the one who has accomplished through you (psalms)
- Christ's Summary of the Bible

## Topics 
### State or Ways
- The Work Towards Perfection
### Purgitive Way
- Is there any unconfessed sin that has broken your fellowship with Him (Is. 59:2)?
- Primary focus is to resist the warfare upon your soul by seeking charity
- the soul remains united to God by grace and charity so long as it is free from the stain of mortal sin
- The passive purifications are the means which God employs to purify the soul from its stains and vices, and to prepare it for the exceptional graces of the supernatural life
- Sensible devotion and a feeling of fervour arising from the consideration of God's goodness vividly represented to the mind and heart; or, from external aids, such as the ceremonies of the Church
### Illuminitive Way
- You are primarily concerned with dealing with virtue 
- “What if everyone else followed my example. Will they be blessed?”
- Main Virtue: Recollection
- This state may take a considerable amount of time
- This does not mean that a person has to neglect the duties of his state or position in life, nor does it imply that honest and needful recreation should be avoided, because these lawful or necessary circumstances or occupations can well be reconciled with perfect recollection and the most holy union with God
- "Nothing more valuable can befall a man than tribulation, when it is endured with patience for the love of God; because there is no more certain sign of the divine election. But this should be understood quite as much of internal as of external trials which people of a certain kind of piety forget." - Blosius
### Unitive Way
- The unitive way is the way of those who are in the state of the perfect, that is, those who have their minds so drawn away from all temporal things that they enjoy great peace, who are neither agitated by various desires nor moved by any great extent by passion, and who have their minds chiefly fixed on God and their attention turned, either always or very frequently, to Him
- Do not fear intimacy with God
- Often contemplation is the gift granted at this point
- In every circumstance of their lives the supernatural motive which ought to guide their actions is ever present to their mind, and the actions are performed under its inspiration with a force of will which makes their accomplishment easy and even delightful.

## Scripture

### 1 Corinthians 6:17

> He who is joined to the Lord, is one spirit.

### Prov. 15:31-33

> "He who listens to a life-giving rebuke will be at home among the wise. He who ignores discipline despises himself, but whoever heeds correction gains understanding. The fear of the Lord teaches a man wisdom, and humility comes before honor" 

## Practical Advice for Prayer
1. The choice of the right place and setting it up
2. The times for prayer
3. The “little office”
4. Methods and gestures in prayer

## Classical Virtue
- Courage
- Temperance
- Prudence
- Justice
## Christian Virtue
- Faith
- Hope
- Charity
## Fruits of the Holy Spirit
1. Charity
2. Joy
3. Peace
4. Patience
5. Benignity (kindness)
6. Goodness
7. Longanimity (or Long-Suffering)
8. Mildness
9. Faith
10. Modesty
11. Continence
12. Chastity
