---
title: "Discernment of the Will of God T.O. V"
date: 2020-09-29T8:43:00-05:00
draft: true
---

## Review

- Purgative -> Illuminitive -> Unitive 
- The two Dark Nights of the Soul (Senses / Soul)
- Consolation and Desolation
- Sentimentalism and Illuminism 
- St.Ignatius' Rules

## General

- Rarely ever a clear communication as between a student and teacher but more of an inner and outer shaping. Deafening Silence. 
- If,as St.Paul indicates, only the spiritually mature can detect the mind of God perfectly, ought we not spend more energy in growing in humility, love, and obedience?
- Thomists note a still stronger encounter in free choice, especially in the embracing of absolute duty.
- The ineffability of the Divine 
- Epistle of St Paul to the Philippians
  > [7] And the peace of God, which surpasseth all understanding, keep your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus.
- The Facts: 1) God does speak to certain men & women, and he speaks with unfailing truth. 2) These same men and women are often mistaken in what they hear or think they hear or in what they conclude from what they hear.
- What is the dust on the Imago Dei?
- The cleaning of said dust as act of Contemplation

## The Three Lenten Pillars
1. Prayer
2. Fasting 
3. Charity

## Experience of God
1. An awareness of the divince presence
2. An awareness senselike and not senselike
3. An infused desire, yearning for God
4. Peace and Comforting
5. Dark, divine, new knowledge of God
6. Inpoured love from and for God
7. Refreshment
8. Being engulfed in God, surrounded by him, immersed in him
9. Experience of union and embrace
10. Awareness of the beauty, goodness of God
11. Radiant joy in God
12. The feeling of inner burning
13. Power, strength, freedom 

## Practical Suggestions
1. Hard-nosed Evidence
2. No finite ideas expresses God adequately, and thus we ought not to cling to it
3. Little attention is to be given to inner communications
4. Use of reason as a source of light
5. A divine message needs human approval
6. Competent spiritual direction
7. Growth in Faith 

## Signs of the Holy Spirit
1. God-Directedness
2. New Love
3. Cross-Asceticism
4. Frugality
5. Uncluttered Freedom
6. Sound Doctrine
7. At Odds with the Prevailing Spirit of the World
8. Unity
9. Obedience Freely Given

## Contemplative Prayer (Catechism of the Catholic Church)

> 2709 What is contemplative prayer? St. Teresa answers: "Contemplative prayer [oracion mental] in my opinion is nothing else than a close sharing between friends; it means taking time frequently to be alone with him who we know loves us."6 Contemplative prayer seeks him "whom my soul loves."7 It is Jesus, and in him, the Father. We seek him, because to desire him is always the beginning of love, and we seek him in that pure faith which causes us to be born of him and to live in him. In this inner prayer we can still meditate, but our attention is fixed on the Lord himself.

> 2710 The choice of the time and duration of the prayer arises from a determined will, revealing the secrets of the heart. One does not undertake contemplative prayer only when one has the time: one makes time for the Lord, with the firm determination not to give up, no matter what trials and dryness one may encounter. One cannot always meditate, but one can always enter into inner prayer, independently of the conditions of health, work, or emotional state. The heart is the place of this quest and encounter, in poverty ant in faith.

> 2711 Entering into contemplative prayer is like entering into the Eucharistic liturgy: we "gather up:" the heart, recollect our whole being under the prompting of the Holy Spirit, abide in the dwelling place of the Lord which we are, awaken our faith in order to enter into the presence of him who awaits us. We let our masks fall and turn our hearts back to the Lord who loves us, so as to hand ourselves over to him as an offering to be purified and transformed.

> 2712 Contemplative prayer is the prayer of the child of God, of the forgiven sinner who agrees to welcome the love by which he is loved and who wants to respond to it by loving even more.8 But he knows that the love he is returning is poured out by the Spirit in his heart, for everything is grace from God. Contemplative prayer is the poor and humble surrender to the loving will of the Father in ever deeper union with his beloved Son.

> 2713 Contemplative prayer is the simplest expression of the mystery of prayer. It is a gift, a grace; it can be accepted only in humility and poverty. Contemplative prayer is a covenant relationship established by God within our hearts.9 Contemplative prayer is a communion in which the Holy Trinity conforms man, the image of God, "to his likeness."

> 2714 Contemplative prayer is also the pre-eminently intense time of prayer. In it the Father strengthens our inner being with power through his Spirit "that Christ may dwell in [our] hearts through faith" and we may be "grounded in love."10

> 2715 Contemplation is a gaze of faith, fixed on Jesus. "I look at him and he looks at me": this is what a certain peasant of Ars in the time of his holy curé used to say while praying before the tabernacle. This focus on Jesus is a renunciation of self. His gaze purifies our heart; the light of the countenance of Jesus illumines the eyes of our heart and teaches us to see everything in the light of his truth and his compassion for all men. Contemplation also turns its gaze on the mysteries of the life of Christ. Thus it learns the "interior knowledge of our Lord," the more to love him and follow him.11

> 2716 Contemplative prayer is hearing the Word of God. Far from being passive, such attentiveness is the obedience of faith, the unconditional acceptance of a servant, and the loving commitment of a child. It participates in the "Yes" of the Son become servant and the Fiat of God's lowly handmaid.

> 2717 Contemplative prayer is silence, the "symbol of the world to come"12 or "silent love."13 Words in this kind of prayer are not speeches; they are like kindling that feeds the fire of love. In this silence, unbearable to the "outer" man, the Father speaks to us his incarnate Word, who suffered, died, and rose; in this silence the Spirit of adoption enables us to share in the prayer of Jesus.

> 2718 Contemplative prayer is a union with the prayer of Christ insofar as it makes us participate in his mystery. The mystery of Christ is celebrated by the Church in the Eucharist, and the Holy Spirit makes it come alive in contemplative prayer so that our charity will manifest it in our acts.

> 2719 Contemplative prayer is a communion of love bearing Life for the multitude, to the extent that it consents to abide in the night of faith. The Paschal night of the Resurrection passes through the night of the agony and the tomb - the three intense moments of the Hour of Jesus which his Spirit (and not "the flesh [which] is weak") brings to life in prayer. We must be willing to "keep watch with [him] one hour."


## Genesis Chapter 24

> [1] Now Abraham was old; and advanced in age: and the Lord had blessed him in all things. [2] And he said to the elder servant of his house, who was ruler over all he had: Put thy hand under my thigh, [3] That I may make thee swear by the Lord the God of heaven and earth, that thou take not a wife for my son, of the daughters of the Chanaanites, among whom I dwell: [4] But that thou go to my own country and kindred, and take a wife from thence for my son Isaac. [5] The servant answered: If the woman will not come with me into this land, must I bring thy son back again to the place, from whence thou camest out?

> [6] And Abraham said: Beware thou never bring my son back again thither. [7] The Lord God of heaven, who took me out of my father's house, and out of my native country, who spoke to me, and swore to me, saying: To thy seed will I give this land: he will send his angel before thee, and thou shalt take from thence a wife for my son. [8] But if the woman will not follow thee, thou shalt not be bound by the oath; only bring not my son back thither again. [9] The servant therefore put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his lord, and swore to him upon this word. [10] And he took ten camels of his master's herd, and departed, carrying something of all his goods with him, and he set forward and went on to Mesopotamia to the city of Nachor.

> [11] And when he had made the camels lie down without the town near a well of water in the evening, at the time when women are wont to come out to draw water, he said: [12] O Lord the God of my master Abraham, meet me today, I beseech thee, and shew kindness to my master Abraham. [13] Behold I stand nigh the spring of water, and the daughters of the inhabitants of this city will come out to draw water. [14] Now, therefore, the maid to whom I shall say: Let down thy pitcher that I may drink: and she shall answer, Drink, and I will give thy camels drink also: let it be the same whom thou hast provided for thy servant Isaac: and by this I shall understand, that thou hast shewn kindness to my master. [15] He had not yet ended these words within himself, and behold Rebecca came out, the daughter of Bathuel, son of Melcha, wife to Nachor the brother of Abraham, having a pitcher on her shoulder:

> [16] An exceeding comely maid, and a most beautiful virgin, and not known to man: and she went down to the spring, and filled her pitcher and was coming back. [17] And the servant ran to meet her, and said: Give me a little water to drink of thy pitcher. [18] And she answered: Drink, my lord. And quickly she let down the pitcher upon her arm, and gave him drink. [19] And when he had drunk, she said: I will draw water for thy camels also, till they all drink. [20] And pouring out the pitcher into the troughs, she ran back to the well to draw water: and having drawn she gave to all the camels.

> [21] But he musing beheld her with silence, desirous to know whether the Lord had made his journey prosperous or not. [22] And after that the camels had drunk, the man took out golden earrings, weighing two sicles: and as many bracelets of ten sicles weight. [23] And he said to her: Whose daughter art thou? tell me: is there any place in thy father's house to lodge? [24] And she answered: I am the daughter of Bathuel, the son of Melcha, whom she bore to Nachor. [25] And she said moreover to him: We have good store of both straw and hay, and a large place to lodge in.

> [26] The man bowed himself down, and adored the Lord, [27] Saying: Blessed be the Lord God of my master Abraham, who hath not taken away his mercy and truth from my master, and hath brought me the straight way into the house of my master's brother. [28] Then the maid ran, and told in her mother's house, all that she had heard. [29] And Rebecca had a brother named Laban, who went out in haste to the man, to the well. [30] And when he had seen the earrings and bracelets in his sister's hands, and had heard all that she related, saying: Thus and thus the man spoke to me: he came to the man who stood by the camels, and near to the spring of water,

> [31] And said to him: Come in, thou blessed of the Lord: why standest thou without? I have prepared the house, and a place for the camels. [32] And he brought him in into his lodging: and he unharnessed the camels and gave straw and hay, and water to wash his feet, and the feet of the men that were come with him. [33] And bread was set before him. But he said: I will not eat, till I tell my message. He answered him: Speak. [34] And he said: I am the servant of Abraham: [35] And the Lord hath blessed my master wonderfully, and he is become great: and he hath given him sheep and oxen, silver and gold, men servants and women servants, camels and asses.

> [36] And Sara my master's wife hath borne my master a son in her old age, and he hath given him all that he had. [37] And my master made me swear, saying: Thou shalt not take a wife for my son of the Chanaanites, in whose land I dwell: [38] But thou shalt go to my father's house, and shalt take a wife of my own kindred for my son: [39] But I answered my master: What if the woman will not come with me? [40] The Lord, said he, in whose sight I walk, will send his angel with thee, and will direct thy way: and thou shalt take a wife for my son of my own kindred, and of my father's house.

> [41] But thou shalt be clear from my curse, when thou shalt come to my kindred, if they will not give thee one. [42] And I came today to the well of water, and said: O Lord God of my master Abraham, if thou hast prospered my way, wherein I now walk, [43] Behold I stand by the well of water, and the virgin, that shall come out to draw water, who shall hear me say: Give me a little water to drink of thy pitcher: [44] And shall say to me: Both drink thou, and I will also draw for thy camels: let the same be the woman, whom the Lord hath prepared for my master's son. [45] And whilst I pondered these things secretly with myself, Rebecca appeared coming with a pitcher, which she carried on her shoulder: and she went down to the well and drew water. And I said to her: Give me a little to drink.

> [46] And she speedily let down the pitcher from her shoulder, and said to me: Both drink thou, and to thy camels I will give drink. I drank, and she watered the camels. [47] And I asked her, and said: Whose daughter art thou? And she answered: I am the daughter of Bathuel, the son of Nachor, whom Melcha bore to him. So I put earrings on her to adorn her face, and I put bracelets on her hands. [48] And falling down I adored the Lord, blessing the Lord God of my master Abraham, who hath brought me the straight way to take the daughter of my master's brother for his son. [49] Wherefore if you do according to mercy and truth with my master, tell me: but if it please you otherwise, tell me that also, that I may go to the right hand, or to the left. [50] And Laban and Bathuel answered: The word hath proceeded from the Lord, we cannot speak any other thing to thee but his pleasure.

> [51] Behold Rebecca is before thee, take her and go thy way, and let her be the wife of thy master's son, as the Lord hath spoken. [52] Which when Abraham's servant heard, falling down to the ground he adored the Lord. [53] And bringing forth vessels of silver and gold, and garments, he gave them to Rebecca for a present. He offered gifts also to her brothers, and to her mother. [54] And a banquet was made, and they ate and drank together, and lodged there. And in the morning, the servant arose, and said: Let me depart, that I may go to my master. [55] And her brother and mother answered: Let the maid stay at least ten days with us, and afterwards she shall depart.

> [56] Stay me not, said he, because the Lord hath prospered my way: send me away, that I may go to my master. [57] And they said: Let us call the maid, and ask her will. [58] And they called her, and when she was come, they asked: Wilt thou go with this man? She said: I will go. [59] So they sent her away, and her nurse, and Abraham's servant, and his company, [60] Wishing prosperity to their sister, and saying: Thou art our sister, mayst thou increase to thousands of thousands, and may thy seed possess the gates of their enemies.

> [61] So Rebecca and her maids, being set upon camels, followed the man: who with speed returned to his master. [62] At the same time Isaac was walking along the way to the well which is called Of the living and the seeing: for he dwelt in the south country. [63] And he was gone forth to meditate in the field, the day being now well spent: and when he had lifted up his eyes, he saw camels coming afar off. [64] Rebecca also, when she saw Isaac, lighted off the camel, [65] And said to the servant: Who is that man who cometh towards us along the field? And he said to her: That man is my master. But she quickly took her cloak, and covered herself.

> [66] And the servant told Isaac all that he had done. [67] Who brought her into the tent of Sara his mother, and took her to wife: and he loved her so much, that it moderated the sorrow which was occasioned by his mother's death.
