---
title: "Discernment of the Will of God T.O. II"
date: 2020-09-08T8:43:00-05:00
draft: true
---
## ACT OF CONSECRATION TO THE SACRED HEART OF JESUS (of St. Claude de la Clombiere)

My Adorable Redeemer, I give and consecrate myself totally to Thy Sacred Heart in the fullest and most complete way of which I am capable.
    Nail me to Thy Cross by my Baptismal Promises, by the duties of my state fo life and by my resolution to serve Thee always. I renew all these before heaven and earth in Thy Sacred Heart.
    Thy holy service is for me an easy yoke and its bonds do not burden me. Moreover, I would desire to fasten even more closely its tight knots.
    Therfore, I embrace the beloved cross of my vocation even unto death. It shall be all my delight, my pleasure, my glory. God forbid that I should glory, save in the Cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, through which the world is crucified to me, and I to the world. Thy poverty shall be my treasure; Thy suffering my delight; Thy Person, my only love.
    I will never abandon Thee, my Savior; I will unite myself intimately with Thee. I do not fear the narrow path of holiness, because Thou art my light and my strength. 
    I hope, therefore, O my Lord, that Thou will make me firm to resist all temptations and that Thou will make me victorious over all the enemies of my soul. Continue to stretch out Thy hand over me, and bestow Thy favors upon me.
    By Thy Blood, by Thy Wounds and by Thy Sacred Heart, I implore Thee, O Adorable Jesus, by this act of consecration grant that I may become a new creation of Thy love. Amen.

## Review

- The OODA Loop (basic decision making)
- Discernment (between everyday decisions and lifelong vocation)
- The notion of perfection (where you are not going to be able to be that way till the final judgement)
- You are called to be a Saint and part of that is the training on a daily basis
- Silence is a useful starting point

## Topics

### Imago Dei (Genesis)

> Wherefore we see that the image of God is in man in three ways. First, inasmuch as man possesses a natural aptitude for understanding and loving God; and this aptitude consists in the very nature of the mind, which is common to all men. Second, inasmuch as man actually or habitually knows and loves God, though imperfectly; and this image consists in the conformity of grace. Thirdly, inasmuch as man knows and loves God perfectly; and this image consists in the likeness of glory. . . . The first is found in all men, the second only in the just, the third only in the blessed.
> St.Thomas Aquinas

### The Word (John & Psalm 1)
### The New Man & as Emulating Christ (Ephesians)
### Specific Attitudes to Guide Daily Acts (Titus)
### The Lord IS the one who has accomplished through you (psalms)
### Christ's Summary of the Bible
    Love the Lord Your God with all your heart, mind, and spirit and love your neighbor as yourself.

## Scripture

### Genesis 1:27
> [27] And God created man to his own image: to the image of God he created him: male and female he created them.
### John 17:6-10
> [6] I have manifested thy name to the men whom thou hast given me out of the world. Thine they were, and to me thou gavest them; and they have kept thy word. [7] Now they have known, that all things which thou hast given me, are from thee: [8] Because the words which thou gavest me, I have given to them; and they have received them, and have known in very deed that I came out from thee, and they have believed that thou didst send me. [9] I pray for them: I pray not for the world, but for them whom thou hast given me: because they are thine: [10] And all my things are thine, and thine are mine; and I am glorified in them.
### Ephesians 4:24
> [22] To put off, according to former conversation, the old man, who is corrupted according to the desire of error. [23] And be renewed in the spirit of your mind: [24] And put on the new man, who according to God is created in justice and holiness of truth. [25] Wherefore putting away lying, speak ye the truth every man with his neighbour; for we are members one of another.
### Ephesians 5:1-2
> [1] Be ye therefore followers of God, as most dear children; [2] And walk in love, as Christ also hath loved us, and hath delivered himself for us, an oblation and a sacrifice to God for an odour of sweetness. 
### Titus 2:6-16
> [6] Young men, in like manner, exhort that they be sober. [7] In all things shew thyself an example of good works, in doctrine, in integrity, in gravity, [8] The sound word that can not be blamed: that he, who is on the contrary part, may be afraid, having no evil to say of us. [9] Exhort servants to be obedient to their masters, in all things pleasing, not gainsaying: [10] Not defrauding, but in all things shewing good fidelity, that they may adorn the doctrine of God our Saviour in all things:

> [11] For the grace of God our Saviour hath appeared to all men; [12] Instructing us, that, denying ungodliness and worldly desires, we should live soberly, and justly, and godly in this world, [13] Looking for the blessed hope and coming of the glory of the great God and our Saviour Jesus Christ, [14] Who gave himself for us, that he might redeem us from all iniquity, and might cleanse to himself a people acceptable, a pursuer of good works. [15] These things speak, and exhort and rebuke with all authority. Let no man despise thee.
### Psalms 36:3-5,23-24
> 36:3-5  [3] Trust in the Lord, and do good, and dwell in the land, and thou shalt be fed with its riches. [4] Delight in the Lord, and he will give thee the requests of thy heart. [5] Commit thy way to the Lord, and trust in him, and he will do it.
36:23-24  With the Lord shall the steps of a man be directed, and he shall like well his way. [24] When he shall fall he shall not be bruised, for the Lord putteth his hand under him. 
### Luke 10:26-28
> [26] But he said to him: What is written in the law? how readest thou? [27] He answering, said: Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with thy whole heart, and with thy whole soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind: and thy neighbour as thyself. [28] And he said to him: Thou hast answered right: this do, and thou shalt live.


## Laudate Moral Checklist

Holy Spirit enlighten my mind and soften my heart, so that I can know my sins and be truly sorry for them.

Responsibilities to God
- Go to Mass every Sunday
- Participate at the Mass
- Avoid daydreaming during the Mass
- Pray every day
- Read the Bible
- Study the truths of the faith and allow them to become more a part of how you think and action
- Read spiritual books or religious literature
- Love God with your whole heart, mind, and strength
- Avoid holding resentment towards God
- Forgive the Church & Church Authorities
- Recognize your need for Jesus & His Salvation
- Ask the Holy Spirit to empower me to live the Christian Life
- Be financially generous to the Church
- Participate in parish or religous activies
- Avoid holding resentment towards the Church and Church Authorities

Responsibilites to others and to myself
- Avoid being rebellious, disobedient or disrespectful to anyone in rightful authority
- Avoid lying
- Avoid being arrogant and stubborn
- Avoid the cultivation of hatred
- Forgive others
- Avoid feeling sorry for yourself or self-pitying
- Avoid engaging in sexual fantasies
- Avoid looking at others lustfully
- Avoid perusing licentious materials
- Avoid self abuse
- Avoid lustfully kissing and sexual touching
- Avoid sexual intercourse
- Avoid abortion and the promotion of abortion
- Avoid gossipping about others
- Avoid slander
- Avoid telling lies about others
- Avoid mocking or making fun of others
- Be a Christian witness to those with whom you work or associate

Responsibility to society
- Speak to people about the Gospel and how important it is to believe in Jesus
- Allow the Gospel to influence your political and social opinions
- Have proper Christian concern for the poor and needy
- Render unto Caesar what is Caesar's
- Avoid fostering or nurturing hatred toward my POLITICAL opponents, either local, national, or internationals

## Other Business

- there was no other business 