---
title: "Salvation History III: Patriarchs and Covenants R.J. M.S."
date: 2020-11-03T8:43:00-05:00
draft: true
---

We'll be talking about the election- the most important election- God's election of Abraham, Israel, and (through their fulfillment in Christ) all of us. 

## Readings

### Genesis 17:1-13

The Covenant of circumcision.

>[1] And after he began to be ninety and nine years old, the Lord appeared to him: and said unto him: I am the Almighty God: walk before me, and be perfect. [2] And I will make my covenant between me and thee: and I will multiply thee exceedingly. [3] Abram fell flat on his face. [4] And God said to him: I AM, and my covenant is with thee, and thou shalt be a father of many nations. [5] Neither shall thy name be called any more Abram: but thou shalt be called Abraham: because I have made thee a father of many nations.

>[6] And I will make thee increase, exceedingly, and I will make nations of thee, and kings shall come out of thee. [7] And I will establish my covenant between me and thee, and between thy seed after thee in their generations, by a perpetual covenant: to be a God to thee, and to thy seed after thee. [8] And I will give to thee, and to thy seed, the land of thy sojournment, all the land of Chanaan for a perpetual possession, and I will be their God. [9] Again God said to Abraham: And thou therefore shalt keep my covenant, and thy seed after thee in their generations. [10] This is my covenant which you shall observe, between me and you, and thy seed after thee: All the male kind of you shall be circumcised:

>[11] And you shall circumcise the flesh of your foreskin, that it may be for a sign of the covenant between me and you. [12] An infant of eight days old shall be circumcised among you, every man child in your generations: he that is born in the house, as well as the bought servant shall be circumcised, and whosoever is not of your stock: [13] And my covenant shall be in your flesh for a perpetual covenant.

### Genesis 22:1-18

The faith and obedience of Abraham is proved in his readiness to sacrifice his son Isaac. He is stayed from the act by an angel. Former promises are renewed to him. His brother Nachor's issue.

>[1] After these things, God tempted Abraham, and said to him: Abraham, Abraham. And he answered: Here I am. [2] He said to him: Take thy only begotten son Isaac, whom thou lovest, and go into the land of vision: and there thou shalt offer him for an holocaust upon one of the mountains which I will shew thee. [3] So Abraham rising up in the night, saddled his ass: and took with him two young men, and Isaac his son: and when he had cut wood for the holocaust he went his way to the place which God had commanded him. [4] And on the third day, lifting up his eyes, he saw the place afar off. [5] And he said to his young men: Stay you here with the ass: I and the boy will go with speed as far as yonder, and after we have worshipped, will return to you.

>[6] And he took the wood for the holocaust, and laid it upon Isaac his son: and he himself carried in his hands fire and a sword. And as they two went on together, [7] Isaac said to his father: My father. And he answered: What wilt thou, son? Behold, saith he, fire and wood: where is the victim for the holocaust? [8] And Abraham said: God will provide himself a victim for an holocaust, my son. So they went on together. [9] And they came to the place which God had shewn him, where he built an altar, and laid the wood in order upon it: and when he had bound Isaac his son, he laid him on the altar upon the pile of wood. [10] And he put forth his hand and took the sword, to sacrifice his son.

>[11] And behold an angel of the Lord from heaven called to him, saying: Abraham, Abraham. And he answered: Here I am. [12] And he said to him: Lay not thy hand upon the boy, neither do thou any thing to him: now I know that thou fearest God, and hast not spared thy only begotten son for my sake. [13] Abraham lifted up his eyes, and saw behind his back a ram amongst the briers sticking fast by the horns, which he took and offered for a holocaust instead of his son. [14] And he called the name of that place, The Lord seeth. Whereupon even to this day it is said: In the mountain the Lord will see. [15] And the angel of the Lord called to Abraham a second time from heaven, saying:

>[16] By my own self have I sworn, saith the Lord: because thou hast done this thing, and hast not spared thy only begotten son for my sake: [17] I will bless thee, and I will multiply thy seed as the stars of heaven, and as the sand that is by the sea shore: thy seed shall possess the gates of their enemies. [18] And in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed, because thou hast obeyed my voice.

