---
title: "Combating Loneliness II J.V."
date: 2021-04-13T8:43:00-05:00
draft: true
---


# Combating Loneliness - Week II: Friendship
## St. Aelred of Rievaulx Spiritual Friendship 

### Book One
20. A friend is called the guardian of love, or, as some prefer, the guardian of the soul itself. Why? Because it is proper for my friend to be the guardian of mutual love or of my very soul, that he may in loyal silence protect all the secrets of my spirit and may bear and endure according to his ability anything wicked he sees in my soul. For the friend will rejoice with my soul rejoicing, grieve with it grieving (Rom 12:15), and feel that everything that belongs to a friend belongs to himself (Acts 4:32).
21. Friendship is that virtue, therefore, through which by a covenant of sweetest love our very spirits are united, and from many are made one. Hence even the philosophers of this world placed friendship not among the accidents of mortal life but among the virtues that are eternal. Solomon seems to agree with them in this verse from Proverbs: “a friend loves always (Prv 17:17.” 
35. Those who share a vested interest in vice falsely claim the fair name of friendship, because one who fails to love is not a friend. One who does not love a comrade loves iniquity, for one who loves iniquity does not love but hates his own soul (Ps 10:6), and one who does not love his own soul will certainly be unable to love the soul of a comrade.
36. I conclude, then, that those who delight in the name of friendship alone are cheated by its likeness, not sustained by the truth. But when so much sweetness is experienced in such empty friendship, which lust pollutes, avarice corrupts, or wantonness defiles, just imagine the sweetness to be experienced in this other friendship: the more righteous, chaste, and open it is, the more it is carefree, enjoyable, and happy.

### Book Two
20. In friendship, then, we join honesty with kindness, truth with joy, sweetness with good will, and affection with kind action. All this begins with Christ, is advanced through Christ, and is perfected in Christ. The ascent does not seem too steep or too unnatural, then, from Christ’s inspiring the love with which we love a friend to Christ’s offering himself to us as the friend we may love, so that tenderness may yield to tenderness, sweetness to sweetness, and affection to affection.
21. Hence a friend clinging to a friend in the spirit of Christ becomes one heart and one soul with him (Acts 4:32; 1 Cor 6:17). 

### Book Three
5. First one must lay a solid foundation for spiritual love, on which its principles should be built. Thus anyone rising on a straight line to its higher stories should use the greatest caution not to neglect or stray from the foundation. That foundation is the love of God, to which everything must be referred—everything, whether suggested by love or by affection; everything, whether pleaded secretly by some spirit or openly by some friend. One must carefully consider whether whatever is added fits the foundation and whether whatever is seen to exceed it is trimmed to suit its shape. One must not hesitate to correct all the details on its model.”
133. In remembering a friend, the more lovingly one sends forth prayer to God, with tears welling up from fear or affection or grief, the more effective that prayer will be. Thus praying to Christ for a friend and desiring to be heard by Christ for a friend, we focus on Christ with love and longing. Then sometimes suddenly, imperceptibly, affection melts into affection, and somehow touching the sweetness of Christ nearby, one begins to taste how dear he is and experience how sweet he is. (Ps 33:9)

## 1 John 1:7
7 but if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us from all sin.

## Galatians 6:2
2 Bear one another’s burdens, and so fulfil the law of Christ. 

## Philippians 2:1-3
1 So if there is any encouragement in Christ, any incentive of love, any participation in the Spirit, any affection and sympathy, 2 complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord and of one mind. 3 Do nothing from selfishness or conceit, but in humility count others better than yourselves. 
 
## 1 Thessalonians 5:11
 11 Therefore encourage one another and build one another up, just as you are doing.

## John 15:12-13
12 This is my commandment, that you love one another as I have loved you. 13 Greater love has no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. 

## 1 Peter 4:8-10
8 Above all hold unfailing your love for one another, since love covers a multitude of sins. 9 Practice hospitality ungrudgingly to one another. 10 As each has received a gift, employ it for one another, as good stewards of God’s varied grace:
