---
title: "Combating Loneliness IV J.V."
date: 2021-04-27T8:43:00-05:00
draft: true
---

# Combating Loneliness - Week IV: Growth in Solitude 

## Meditations for Each Day - Antonio Cardinal Bacci

### February 6

A little solitude is necessary for everyone but, _“it is dangerous to concentrate our attention too much on ourselves if, having discovered our own weakness, we do not raise our thoughts towards God to implore His mercy."_ (Mariano Cordovani OP, Breviario Spirituale p 14).
It is disastrous, if solitude leads to laziness or to futile mental rambling.
Solitude should be active and fervent.
It should be an ascent towards God.
It should help us to form the habit of continual conversation with God, so that nothing can break our union with Him.
A man who only prays when he is on his knees, prays very little.
The Gospel says that we ought always to pray.
Solitude of the heart, enables us to obey this precept.
_“Of what us is the solitude of the body,” asks St Gregory the Great,_“without the solitude of the heart?” (Moralia, Bk XXX, Xh 52).

If we wish to have this spiritual solitude which will keep us close to God, our hearts must be detached from worldly affairs._“If a glass vase is filled with earth,” writes St Alphonsus, “the light of the sun cannot penetrate it. Similarly, the divine light cannot penetrate a heart which is preoccupied with the love of pleasure and of honours”_ (Al Divino Servizio, III, 2).

Let us love solitude then.
Let us look for it whenever it is possible but, above all, let us keep our hearts free from earthly attachments and united to God.

### May 26

A man who has no love for solitude, does not love God.
It can easily happen that worldly objects dazzle the mind and enchant the heart, so that anyone who is greatly occupied with them, does not see or experience God in any way.
A man who talks a lot with other men, rarely speaks with God.
God’s voice is heard in silence and in solitude and we must listen for it if we wish to have any ease of conversation with Him.
It is fatal to allow ourselves to be deafened by the noise of the world and never to listen for the voice of God, which speaks within us.

Only those who have been called to a higher vocation, can live in a cloister but a little solitude is necessary for everybody from time to time.
It maybe a course in the Spiritual Exercises, or a monthly day of recollection, or a quarter of an hour spent everyday in the presence of the Blessed Sacrament.
In those moments of detachment from the world and of intimacy with God, we can enjoy conditions far above any which can be found on earth.

Such moments can be the beginning of a new life.

The Holy Spirit incites us through the prophet Hosea, to find these necessary intervals for silence and prayer:_“I will allure her and will lead her into the wilderness and I will speak to her heart”_(Hos 2:14).
Jesus set the standard for us, when He spent forty days alone in the desert, fasting and praying.
Even though the Apostles were engaged in public missionary activity, He was anxious that they should retire from it for a while, in order to refresh themselves spiritually._“Come apart into a desert place,” He said “and rest a while”_(Mk 6:31).
St Bernard wrote that silence and peace far away from the noise of the world, helped the soul to meditate on God and on spiritual matters (Epist 73).
_“Solitude is Heaven to me,”_(Epist 4 ad Rust) said St Jerome.

The Blessed Virgin also took refuge from distraction and loved the solitude of her home in Nazareth, where the Angel first announced to her, that she was to be the Mother of God.

## Mark 1:35
And in the morning, a great while before day, he rose and went out to a lonely place, and there he prayed.

## Luke 5:15-16
15 But so much the more the report went abroad concerning him; and great multitudes gathered to hear and to be healed of their infirmities. 16 But he withdrew to the wilderness and prayed.

## Luke 6:12
In these days he went out into the hills to pray; and all night he continued in prayer to God.

## Matthew 14:23
And after he had dismissed the crowds, he went up into the hills by himself to pray. When evening came, he was there alone

## Galatians 1:15-17
5But when he who had set me apart before I was born, and had called me through his grace, 16 was pleased to reveal his Son to me, in order that I might preach him among the Gentiles, I did not confer with flesh and blood,17nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me, but I went away into Arabia; and again I returned to Damascus.
